content/posts/2013-10-18-you-must-prototype-it-in-code.md, before:

---
date: "2013-10-18"

title: You must prototype it in code
---

Jeff Atwood in [Good Programmers Get Off Their Butts](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/2004/11/good-programmers-get-off-their-butts.html):

> I am not proposing a code-like-hell methodology. I am merely observing that, in my experience, **coding without planning is just as futile as coding with too much planning**. Software development is [a wicked problem](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/archives/000071.html); you should never make planning decisions without some kind of code prototype to ensure that you're making informed decisions. If you plan too far ahead of the code, I guarantee you are doing work that will be thrown away or altered until it is unrecognizable.

> The most destructive symptom of over-planning is the wrongheaded idea that being a Software Architect(tm) means drawing a lot of UML diagrams and handing them off to a group of developers in Bangalore. **UML is great if you don't want to do any work; you just draw pictures of what it would look like if work was actually done**. This is not only borderline laziness, it's also a recipe for disaster. You can't architect a real world application on a whiteboard. You must prototype it in code to gather data on the performance and design implications of the choices you are making.

Commit message:

Add excerpt and clean posts

content/posts/2013-10-18-you-must-prototype-it-in-code.md, after:

---
date: "2013-10-18"

title: You must prototype it in code

excerptQuote:
  name: "Jeff Atwood"
  quote: "The most destructive symptom of over-planning is the wrongheaded idea that being a Software Architect™ means drawing a lot of UML diagrams and handing them off to a group of developers. […] You can't architect a real world application on a whiteboard. You must prototype it in code to gather data on the performance and design implications of the choices you are making."
---

Jeff Atwood in [Good Programmers Get Off Their Butts](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/2004/11/good-programmers-get-off-their-butts.html):

> I am not proposing a code-like-hell methodology. I am merely observing that, in my experience, **coding without planning is just as futile as coding with too much planning**. Software development is [a wicked problem](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/archives/000071.html); you should never make planning decisions without some kind of code prototype to ensure that you're making informed decisions. If you plan too far ahead of the code, I guarantee you are doing work that will be thrown away or altered until it is unrecognizable.
>
> The most destructive symptom of over-planning is the wrongheaded idea that being a Software Architect™ means drawing a lot of UML diagrams and handing them off to a group of developers in Bangalore. **UML is great if you don't want to do any work; you just draw pictures of what it would look like if work was actually done**. This is not only borderline laziness, it's also a recipe for disaster. You can't architect a real world application on a whiteboard. You must prototype it in code to gather data on the performance and design implications of the choices you are making.
